In the wake of the Roman Empire`s conquest of Britain in the first century A.D., a large number of troops stayed in the new province, and these troops had a considerable impact on Britain with their camps, fortifications, and participation in the local economy. Assessing the impact of the army on the civilian population starts from the realization that the soldiers were always unevenly distributed across the country.  Areas rapidly incorporated into the empire were not long affected by the military.  Where the army remained stationed, its presence was much more influential.  The imposition of a military base involved the requisition of native lands for both the fort and the territory needed to feed and exercise the soldiers` animals. The imposition of military rule also robbed local leaders of opportunities to participate in local government, so social development was stunted and the seeds of disaffection sown.  This then meant that the military had to remain to suppress rebellion and organize government. Economic exchange was clearly very important as the Roman army brought with it very substantial spending power.  Locally a fort had two kinds of impact. Its large population needed food and other supplies. Some of these were certainly brought from long distances, but demands were inevitably placed on the local area. Although goods could be requisitioned, they were usually paid for, and this probably stimulated changes in the local economy.  When not campaigning, soldiers needed to be occupied; otherwise they represented a potentially dangerous source of friction and disloyalty.  Hence a writing tablet dated 25 April tells of 343 men at one fort engaged on tasks like shoemaking, building a bathhouse, operating kilns, digging clay, and working lead.   Such activities had a major effect on the local area, in particular with the construction of infrastructure such as roads, which improved access to remote areas. Each soldier received his pay, but in regions without a developed economy there was initially little on which it could be spent. The pool of excess cash rapidly stimulated a thriving economy outside fort gates.  Some of the demand for the services and goods was no doubt fulfilled by people drawn from far afield, but some local people certainly became entwined in this new economy. There was informal marriage with soldiers, who until A.D. 197 were not legally entitled to wed, and whole new communities grew up near the forts. These settlements acted like small towns, becoming centers for the artisan and trading populations. The army also provided a means of personal advancement for auxiliary soldiers recruited from the native peoples, as a man obtained hereditary Roman citizenship on retirement after service in an auxiliary regiment. Such units recruited on an ad hoc (as needed) basis from the area in which they were stationed, and there was evidently large-scale recruitment within Britain. The total numbers were at least 12,500 men up to the reign of the emperor Hadrian (A.D. 117--138), with a peak around A.D. 80. Although a small proportion of the total population, this perhaps had a massive local impact when a large proportion of the young men were removed from an area.  Newly raised regiments were normally transferred to another province from whence it was unlikely that individual recruits would ever return.  Most units raised in Britain went elsewhere on the European continent, although one is recorded in Morocco. The reverse process brought young men to Britain, where many continued to live after their 20 to 25 years of service, and this added to the cosmopolitan Roman character of the frontier population. By the later Roman period, frontier garrisons (groups of soldiers) were only rarely transferred, service in units became effectively hereditary, and forts were no longer populated or maintained at full strength. This process of settling in as a community over several generations, combined with local recruitment, presumably accounts for the apparent stability of the British northern frontier in the later Roman period. It also explains why some of the forts continued in occupation long after Rome ceased to have any formal authority in Britain, at the beginning of the fifth century A.D. The circumstances that had allowed natives to become Romanized also led the self-sustaining military community of the frontier area to become effectively British.
question 1
Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
A Many Roman soldiers remained in Britain after conquering it, and their presence had a strong influence.
B The new Roman province of Britain seemed to awaken in the first century A.D. as the local economy improved.
C Camps, fortifications, and economic change contributed to the Roman conquest of Britain.
D With the conquest of Britain by Roman troops, the Roman Empire gained considerable economic strength.


question 2
According to paragraph 1, the Roman army had the most influence on those areas of Britain that were
A conquered first
B near population centers
C used as military bases
D rapidly incorporated into the empire


question 3
According to paragraph 1, what effect did military occupation have on the local population?
A It encouraged more even distribution of the population and the settlement of previously undeveloped territory.
B It created discontent and made continuing military occupation necessary.
C It required local labor to construct forts and feed and exercise the soldiers’ animals.
D It provided local leaders with opportunities to participate in governance.


question 4
The author mentions “343 men at one fort engaged on tasks like shoemaking, building a bathhouse, operating kilns, digging clay, and working lead” in order to
A describe the kinds of tasks soldiers were required to perform as punishment for disloyalty or misdeeds
B illustrate some of the duties assigned to soldiers to keep them busy and well-behaved when not involved in military campaigns
C provide evidence that Roman soldiers had a negative effect on the local area by performing jobs that had been performed by native workers
D argue that the soldiers would have been better employed in the construction of infrastructure such as roads


question 5
According to paragraph 3, how did the soldiers meet their needs for goods and services?
A Their needs were met by the army, and all of their economic transactions took place within the fort.
B Most of their needs were met by traveling tradespeople who visited the forts.
C During their days off, soldiers traveled to distant towns to make purchases.
D They bought what they needed from the artisans and traders in nearby towns.


question 6
According to paragraph 4, which of the following is true of Britain’s auxiliary regiments of the Roman army?
A Membership in these regiments reached its highest point during the reign of the emperor Hadrian.
B Most of the units recruited in Britain were sent to Morocco and other stations outside Europe.
C Soldiers served in the regiments for many years and after retirement generally stayed where they had been stationed.
D Most of the regiments stationed on the frontier were new units transferred from a neighboring province.


question 7
According to paragraph 4, all of the following changes could be seen in the frontier garrisons by the later Roman period EXCEPT:
A Membership in the units passed from father to son.
B Fewer soldiers were stationed at the forts.
C Soldiers usually were not transferred to different locations.
D Frontier units became more effective and proficient.


question 8
Why does the author mention that “some of the forts continued in occupation long after Rome ceased to have any formal authority in Britain” ?
A To emphasize the degree to which the stability of the British northern frontier depended on firm military control
B To suggest that the Romans continued to occupy Britain even after they had formally given up the right to do so
C To support the claim that forts continued to serve an important economic function even after they ceased to be of any military use
D To describe one of the things that resulted from frontier garrisons’ becoming part of the local community over a long period


question 9
Look at the four squares [ ] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
In the wake of the Roman Empire`s conquest of Britain in the first century A.D., a large number of troops stayed in the new province, and these troops had a considerable impact on Britain with their camps, fortifications, and participation in the local economy.   Assessing the impact of the army on the civilian population starts from the realization that the soldiers were always unevenly distributed across the country.  Areas rapidly incorporated into the empire were not long affected by the military.  Where the army remained stationed, its presence was much more influential.  The imposition of a military base involved the requisition of native lands for both the fort and the territory needed to feed and exercise the soldiers` animals. The imposition of military rule also robbed local leaders of opportunities to participate in local government, so social development was stunted and the seeds of disaffection sown.  This then meant that the military had to remain to suppress rebellion and organize government. Economic exchange was clearly very important as the Roman army brought with it very substantial spending power.  Locally a fort had two kinds of impact. Its large population needed food and other supplies. [] Some of these were certainly brought from long distances, but demands were inevitably placed on the local area. [] Although goods could be requisitioned, they were usually paid for, and this probably stimulated changes in the local economy. [] When not campaigning, soldiers needed to be occupied; otherwise they represented a potentially dangerous source of friction and disloyalty. [] Hence a writing tablet dated 25 April tells of 343 men at one fort engaged on tasks like shoemaking, building a bathhouse, operating kilns, digging clay, and working lead.   Such activities had a major effect on the local area, in particular with the construction of infrastructure such as roads, which improved access to remote areas. Each soldier received his pay, but in regions without a developed economy there was initially little on which it could be spent. The pool of excess cash rapidly stimulated a thriving economy outside fort gates.  Some of the demand for the services and goods was no doubt fulfilled by people drawn from far afield, but some local people certainly became entwined in this new economy. There was informal marriage with soldiers, who until A.D. 197 were not legally entitled to wed, and whole new communities grew up near the forts. These settlements acted like small towns, becoming centers for the artisan and trading populations. The army also provided a means of personal advancement for auxiliary soldiers recruited from the native peoples, as a man obtained hereditary Roman citizenship on retirement after service in an auxiliary regiment. Such units recruited on an ad hoc (as needed) basis from the area in which they were stationed, and there was evidently large-scale recruitment within Britain. The total numbers were at least 12,500 men up to the reign of the emperor Hadrian (A.D. 117--138), with a peak around A.D. 80. Although a small proportion of the total population, this perhaps had a massive local impact when a large proportion of the young men were removed from an area.  Newly raised regiments were normally transferred to another province from whence it was unlikely that individual recruits would ever return.  Most units raised in Britain went elsewhere on the European continent, although one is recorded in Morocco. The reverse process brought young men to Britain, where many continued to live after their 20 to 25 years of service, and this added to the cosmopolitan Roman character of the frontier population. By the later Roman period, frontier garrisons (groups of soldiers) were only rarely transferred, service in units became effectively hereditary, and forts were no longer populated or maintained at full strength. This process of settling in as a community over several generations, combined with local recruitment, presumably accounts for the apparent stability of the British northern frontier in the later Roman period. It also explains why some of the forts continued in occupation long after Rome ceased to have any formal authority in Britain, at the beginning of the fifth century A.D. The circumstances that had allowed natives to become Romanized also led the self-sustaining military community of the frontier area to become effectively British.


question 10
Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
A. Although the presence of the army in certain areas caused resentment among the local population, it provided important services such as building infrastructure.
B. Though the army appropriated land and some goods, it also paid for many supplies, stimulating local economic growth.
C. By recruiting unemployed young men for its auxiliary units, the army made it possible for them to stay in their home towns and provide financial support for their families.
D. The forts contributed to the quality of local crafts by bringing in artisans from distant places who brought with them new skills and techniques.
E. Large quantities of cash from soldiers’ pay stimulated development, but also drove up prices, making it hard for local residents to afford goods and services.
F. Roman soldiers started families with local inhabitants, and over the generations, the military community became a stable part of British society.


